
   :widths: 10 20 10 20

   * - .. image:: https://ag.purdue.edu/ProfileImages/dbarbara.jpg
     - `David Michael Barbarash
       <https://ag.purdue.edu/hla/LA/Pages/Profile.aspx?strAlias=dbarbara&intDirDeptID=24>`__
        Associate Professor, Landscape Architecture.

   * - .. image:: https://engineering.purdue.edu/ResourceDB/ResourceFiles/image92690
     - `David Cappelleri
       <https://engineering.purdue.edu/ME/People/ptProfile?id=92669>`__
        Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering

   * - .. image:: https://shuohanchen.files.wordpress.com/2019/02/shuohan-eps-converted-to.png
     - `Shuo-Han Chen
       <https://shuohanchen.com/>`__
       Postdoctoral Fellow, Academia Sinica
	    
   * - .. image:: https://drive.google.com/uc?id=1EqxgXBuEQNiQ5pNVvg42AfWMFKByjKh1
     - `Yung-Hsiang Lu
       <https://engineering.purdue.edu/ECE/People/ptProfile?resource_id=3355>`__
       Professor,  Electrical and Computer
       Engineering.

   * - .. image:: images/gkt.jpg
     - `George K. Thiruvathukal <https://thiruvathukal.com>`__ 
       Professor, Computer Science, Loyola University Chicago.


Interviews before joining a research group
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 

Why does an organization have an interview before accept a new
member? An obvious answer is “to ensure the qualifications of the new 
member”. This is only partially correct. In reality, interviews are
bidirectional:

#. The organization wants to know whether the candidate would succeed 
   in the organization.

#. The candidate wants to know whether the organization would be a
   good fit.

The organization’s representatives (i.e., interviewers) should
appreciate the candidate's (i.e., interviewee) interests and time.
The candidate should also appreciate the interviewers’ effort and
time. Some people are new to workplace and treat interviews as a
hostile encounter; the reality is the opposite. The interviewers and  
the interviewee are in fact collaborative because they have the same  
goal: finding the right match of the candidate and the organization.  
Interviewers determine whether the candidate has the right knowledge  
and skills for the organization. The candidate determine whether this 
organization would be the right place for build a career.

An interview would be a good indication what types of problems are
the organization’s top priorities. In many cases,  the organization
has resources (such as salary) that are desirable to the candidate.
The candidate, however, must resist the temptation of accepting an
offer for the sole reason of financial support. Joining a wrong
organization can significantly hurt one’s career development.

It is also important to know the people before joining a group. Each  
organization has its unique culture and it is important for the
candidate to understand the expectations. It is usually difficult
changing an organization’s culture. Instead, a new comer almost
always has to adjust to match the organization’s culture.

Dr. Lu’s research group includes people from different countries and  
fluent English is needed for communication. If you wish not to speak  
English, this group would not be a good fit.

It is always advisable to know the organization as much as
possiblebeforeeven initiating communication. Many people send the
same email to hundreds of people and hope one of them gets lucky.
This is unlikely to pay off. Before contacting a professor, it is
better to know this professor’srecentwork. Read some papers published 
by this professor and imagine whether this type of project would be
exciting. Please notice the word “recent”. Due to many reasons,
professors’ projects may change. What a professor did ten years ago
may not correctly reflect this professor’s recent work. It is also
helpful to know what courses the professor teaches. These courses
often serve as the baseline of the professor’s research projects.
Before contacting a professor, it is better to know the materials in  
these courses.

Even though most students join research groups to learn and learning  
is likely part of the experience, “learning” should not be the main
purpose of any research project. Research groups are looking for
people that cansolve research problems. A person that “learns a lot”  
without any contribution to solving problems is not helpful to the
group and, thus, is undesirable to the group. Before joining a group, 
it is important to understand the differences.
Projects
-----------

- `CAM2 <http://cam2project.net>`__

